Push users towards starter projects (#77)
clash-lang/clash-lang.org: content/install/linux.md

```

This will create a new project called `my-clash-project` in a folder with the same name. The folder will contain a `README.md` to get you up and running. Alternatively, you [can read it online](https://github.com/clash-lang/clash-starters/tree/main/simple#simple-starter-project).

### Alternatives

A starter project using Stack is the recommended way to use Clash, and is fully supported. Alternative methods sometimes exhibit issues that can be confusing even to people used to working with GHC, since Clash is pretty non-standard. Clash is a modification to the GHC compiler rather than a normal Haskell package, and it uses several GHC plugins to extend the functionality of type-level naturals, which are extensively used in Clash designs.

#### Starter project with Cabal

 People familiar with the Haskell ecosystem might prefer to use Cabal instead of Stack. To do so, [download the starter project as a zip](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/clash-lang/clash-starters/main/simple.zip) and follow the instructions in [`README.md`](https://github.com/clash-lang/clash-starters/tree/main/simple#simple-starter-project).

#### Run Clash on its own

> The following compiles the file [`ShortBlinker.hs`](/code/ShortBlinker.hs) to VHDL:

Reviewer: Would be nice if there was a way to do https://gomakethings.com/how-to-force-a-file-to-download-instead-of-open-in-the-browser-using-only-html/

Author: Done

```

> stack exec --resolver nightly-2025-03-01 --package clash-ghc -- clash ShortBlinker.hs -Wall --vhdl

Reviewer: Why add this `-Wall` and then the note as well? I would hope to make the install instructions as short (and simple) as possible.

Author: We discussed this and you explained to me how you see people using this command. I agree and have changed it.

[Install Stack](https://docs.haskellstack.org/en/stable/README/#how-to-install). Stack is a build tool for Haskell / Clash projects.

# 3. Setup Clash

To setup a new project based on the provided starter projects, run:

```
stack new my-clash-project clash-lang/simple
```

> This will create a new project called `my-clash-project` in a folder named the same. The folder will contain a `README.md` to get you up and running. Alternatively, you [can read it online](https://github.com/clash-lang/clash-starters/tree/main/simple#simple-starter-project).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will create a new project called `my-clash-project` in a folder with the same name. The folder will contain a `README.md` to get you up and running. Alternatively, you [can read it online](https://github.com/clash-lang/clash-starters/tree/main/simple#simple-starter-project).
```

### Alternatives

A starter project using Stack is the recommended way to use Clash, and is fully supported. Alternative methods sometimes exhibit issues that can be confusing even to people used to working with GHC, since Clash is pretty non-standard in that it is a modification to the GHC compiler rather than a normal Haskell package. Furthermore, it uses several GHC plugins to extend the functionality of type-level naturals, which are extensively used in Clash designs.

#### Starter project with Cabal

 People familiar with the Haskell ecosystem might prefer to use Cabal instead of Stack. To do so, [download the starter project as a zip](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/clash-lang/clash-starters/main/simple.zip) and follow the instructions in [`README.md`](https://github.com/clash-lang/clash-starters/tree/main/simple#simple-starter-project).

#### Run Clash on its own

> The following compiles a file `HelloWorld.hs` to VHDL:

Reviewer 2: Does it make sense to add the contents of such a file here? That way people can try this command out without first having to know how to write such a file? It could be really small and simple too, but I think *something* would be nice?

Author: Yes, good idea! The thought briefly entered my head but went on its way before I could examine it :-).

I can whip up an LED blinker in just a few lines of code. It won't have all the trimmings, but it'd be working code. I'll propose one later.

Author: Would this be a nice file? Or should we make something even shorter? Or avoid the use of `Functor` or the dot function composition operator?

```haskell
{-# OPTIONS_GHC "-Wno-orphans" #-}

module ShortBlinker where

import Clash.Class.Counter
import Clash.Explicit.Prelude

-- 50 MHz clock (period of 20.000 ps), synchronous resets
createDomain vXilinxSystem{vName="DomSys", vPeriod=20_000}

-- Number of cycles in 0.5 seconds
type HalfSecDelay = 25_000_000
-- Or let Clash compute it: 500e9 picoseconds divided by clock period
-- type HalfSecDelay = 500_000_000_000 `Div` DomainPeriod DomSys

topEntity ::
  Clock DomSys ->
  Reset DomSys ->
  Signal DomSys Bit
topEntity clk rst = (bitCoerce . fst) <$> counter
 where
  counter :: Signal DomSys (BitVector 1, Index HalfSecDelay)
  counter = register clk rst enableGen (0,0) (countSucc <$> counter)
{-# OPAQUE topEntity #-}
```

I would have loved to be able to do `topEntity clk rst = fst <$> counter` but unfortunately the necessary `Counter Bit` instance is a Clash 1.10 thing...

Author: It was just a method to allow people to
1. Adjust the frequency
2. See how we can actually have Clash adjust the type

Also, it was meant as a really small somewhat complete example. If you enter the frequency of the crystal of your dev board and map the two inputs and out to the correct pins, you'll get a blinking LED. And by "somewhat complete" I mean "close to what you would actually write", so again, probably with a domain.

Finally, the `System` domain has asynchronous resets, but I think both Xilinx and Intel, the large players, recommend synchronous resets these days. But using `XilinxSystem` feels clunky if you're not actually targetting Xilinx.

But if you feel this is not convincing, I can remove the custom domain and the "let Clash compute it" snippet.

>  some "easy to understand" code that's as small as possible is probably the way to go? 

Ah, I think I see the impedance mismatch. I was going for code that was actually useful: it will blink a LED on a dev board. You were going for the minimum code that creates HDL. For that `topEntity = (+ 1)` would be more than sufficient (with a monomorphic type).

Author: > So maybe only use the computed delay, not the hardcoded one
In that case I'd still like to note in a comment that the outcome is 25,000, so people have an immediate feeling about what this does. Note I explained all the non-trivial numbers I used in the code and I deliberately did that.

Reviewer 2: I think this is a small enough example that it's fine, those were just ideas. I think the clash-computed delay is still nicer but keeping the explanation is good!
